OH, GIVE YOU
THE AN ANNUAL MEETING, MARJORIE
MERKABAH TELL ME ELIZABETH
BERRY STEVE BRUMMER, ALEX DEEK
MILTON TONY HERE ANGELA JACKSON
TYLER KENLY, KIM MAISE, MIKE
MCLELLAND, THRISSUR NICHOLS AND
MOLLY ROWIN.
WE DO HAVE A QUORUM AND THE
MOTION TO BE RIGHT NOW TO MOVE
ON TO PUBLIC COMMENT IS A
PUBLIC APOLOGY TO ADDRESS THAT
GRIEVANCE.
IS THERE ANYONE FROM
EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR OR NOT?
A REPORT JUST AN ANNOUNCEMENT
IN ADDITION TO HAVING OUR BOARD
MEETINGS HERE IN COUNCIL
CHAMBERS MOVING FORWARD WE WILL
HAVE OUR DENHA BOARD WORK
SESSIONS HERE IN CITY HALL IN
THE BASEMENT CONFERENCE ROOM.
NEXT WEEK'S WORK SESSION WILL
BE CANCELED.
WE DON'T HAVE ANY ITEMS FOR
THAT WORK SESSION AND YOU WILL
BE GETTING UPDATED INVITATIONS
FROM KELLY SHOWING THE NEW
LOCATIONS.
>> THANK YOU.
I WAS SUPPOSED TO MAKE AN
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THERE ARE
MICROPHONES IN FRONT OF YOU AND
IF YOU PUSH THE BUTTON TO SPEAK
OR PUSH THE BUTTON, IT TURNS
GREEN, IT'S ON, RED IS OFF.
SO JUST BE AWARE OF THAT.
>> DO WE HAVE ANY DENHA MEMBER
COMMUNICATIONS
?
>> ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO THE CONTENT AGENDA
KIND MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE
THE CONTENT AGENDA SO ALL
RIGHT.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION OF THE
CONTENT AGENDA?
WE HAVE TWO ITEMS THE MINUTES
FROM JUNE AND THE RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE DDA DISBURSEMENTS FOR
MAY
.
ALL RIGHT.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF APPROVING
THE CONTENT AGENDA PLEASE SAY I
WILL OPPOSE.
ALL RIGHT.
THAT'S APPROVED.
WE HAVE ONE PRESENTATION TODAY
FROM BENKERT IN ARBER WHO'S
HERE TO PRESENT A REPORT ON THE
DDA INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO AS A
REMINDER, WE ALSO HAVE FUNDS
INVESTED WITH MICHIGAN CLASS
INVESTMENT POOL BUT WE'RE JUST
HEARING ABOUT THE BANK OF IN
OUR REPORT AND TODAY DAVID GOOD
AFTERNOON.
I'M DAVE REAVER HERE WITH MY
COLLEAGUE FRED HIGGIN.
WE ARE WITH THE BANK VAN ARBER
AND WE ARE RESPONSE BOTH FOR
YOUR PORTFOLIO.
SO I'D LIKE TO BE RESPECTFUL
OF EVERYONE'S TIME THOUGHT TEN
FIFTEEN MINUTES IS THAT DOES
THAT WORK OK, GREAT.
IF NOT YOU CAN JUST GIVE ME A
SIGNAL MOVE IT ALONG BUDDY.
OK SO IF YOU TURN TO PAGE OH
THAT WOULD BE ME PAGE TO WE
HAVE OUR OUTLOOK AND SO WE HAVE
IT KIND OF BLOCKED THE ECONOMY
INTEREST RATES KIND OF OUR VIEW
ON THE OVERALL MARKET.
I WANT TO TALK A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT THE ECONOMY.
SPEND A LOT OF A LOT OF NEWS
ITEMS RECENTLY ABOUT THE
ECONOMY AND WHAT'S GOING ON AND
SO I'VE GOT A COUPLE OF CHARTS
IN HERE TO HOPEFULLY PRESENT
SOME DATA.
I CAN GIVE YOU A BETTER
UNDERSTANDING OF WHERE WE
BELIEVE WE ARE SO WHAT WE HAVE
SEEN IS WE'VE SEEN A STRONG
LABOR MARKET BUT RECENTLY WE'RE
THE LABOR MARKET I WOULD SAY IS
A WEAKENING BUT IT'S NOT WEAK
AND PRESENT SOME DATA ABOUT
THAT.
THE REAL FOCUS HAS BEEN ON
INTEREST RATES CERTAINLY WERE
ON THE HEADLINES, THE FED
CHAIRMAN AND THINGS LIKE THAT.
BUT WHAT IS THE FED EXPECTED TO
DO AND RIGHT NOW THE MARKET IS
PRICING IN TWO CUTS.
ONE IN SEPTEMBER AND ANOTHER
ONE BEFORE YEAR END.
SO WE'VE HAD VERY MIXED DATA
REGARDING THE STRENGTH OF THE
ECONOMY INFLATION AND SO WE'VE
GOTTEN WE'VE HAD WEAK ECONOMIC
DATA, WEAK GOOD INFLATION
REPORTS AND THEN IT'S GONE THE
OTHER WAY.
AND SO THE MARKET HAS REALLY
KIND OF MOVED ON THAT LAST WEEK
I BELIEVE IT WAS LAST WEEK WE
HAD STRONG NUMBERS ON T JOBS
CREATED AND SO WHILE THERE WAS
A 18 PERCENT CHANCE OF A CUT IN
JULY BEFORE THAT NUMBER CAME
OUT, IT'S BASICALLY DOWN TO
ZERO NOW.
SO ANYWAY I I DO BELIEVE THAT
TWO CUTS WE WILL SEE TWO CUTS
THIS YEAR.
SO TURNING TO PAGE THREE, THIS
IS SOME DATA THAT I HAVE USED
IN THE PAST THAT HAS HELPED
KIND OF CLARIFY WHERE THE
ECONOMY IS BECAUSE THERE'S ALL
THESE HEADLINES.
THERE'S LOTS OF THINGS SORTING
OUT WHAT IS DATA THAT YOU CAN
ACT ON VERSUS DATA THAT YOU CAN
JUST PUT ASIDE.
SO WITH THE HELP OF MY
COLLEAGUE FRED WHO RECREATE
THIS FOR US IN THE BANK BANABA
,THIS IS DATA THAT COMES OUT
WEEKLY.
IT'S A LEADING ECONOMIC
INDICATOR AND IT'S A RAIL CAR
LOADS AND IT COMES WEEKLY COMES
OUT EVERY WEDNESDAY OR
THURSDAY, WEDNESDAY, WEDNESDAY
AND IT'S GOOD BECAUSE IT'S
TIMELY AND IT'S VERY GRANULAR.
SO WE'VE GOT AUTOS LIVING IN
THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
WE'VE GOT INFORMATION ON AUTOS
AND THEN WE ALSO HAVE
INTERMODAL WHICH WE CAN
BREAKOUT WHICH GIVES US GOOD
INSIGHT INTO INTERNATIONAL
CERTAINLY CHINA THOUGHTS ON
TARIFFS, THINGS LIKE THAT.
AND SO FAR THIS QUARTER AND
THIS YEAR THE NUMBERS HAVE BEEN
STRONG SO DON'T GET TOO CAUGHT
UP IN ALL THE LINE ITEMS
CARINA'S GOOD REDS BAD BUT THE
GREEN NUMBERS ARE DECREASING.
SO WE'VE HAD IT'S BEEN A STRONG
ECONOMY.
I BELIEVE THE ATLANTA FED IS
PROJECTING ABOUT TWO AND A HALF
PERCENT GROWTH FOR Q2 GDP.
IT WAS NEGATIVE FOUR POINT FIVE
FOR Q1 MOSTLY BECAUSE OF NET
EXPORTS.
SO THIS IS BASICALLY STILL
GIVING US A GREEN SIGNAL THAT
THE ECONOMY IS STILL MOVING
ALONG.
TURNING THE PAGE THREE THIS IS
ANOTHER ONE UNEMPLOYMENT CLAIMS
AND IS OUR WEEKLY UNEMPLOYMENT
CLAIMS.
SO AGAIN IT'S TIMELY.
IT'S A LEADING INDICATOR AND
THIS IS SHOWS UNEMPLOYMENT
CLAIMS ON A FOUR WEEK MOVING
AVERAGE.
SO WHEN SOMEONE LOSES THEIR
JOB, FIRST THING THAT THEY DO
IS THEY SIGN UP FOR
UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS.
SO IF THE ECONOMY IS WEAKENING,
WEAKENING, WE SHOULD START TO
SEE THAT NUMBER RISE.
YOU CAN SEE KIND OF TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE IT'S GOING UP A BIT
BUT WE HAD A GOOD NUMBER ON
THAT LAST WEEK THAT WAS AROUND
TO THIRTY.
SO THE RED LINE IS UNEMPLOYMENT
CLAIMS, WEEKLY UNEMPLOYMENT
CLAIMS OF ABOUT THREE HUNDRED
THOUSAND PER WEEK.
WE'RE NOT THERE YET BUT WE ARE
DEFINITELY TRENDING UP.
SO GETS BACK TO MY FIRST POINT
LABOR MARKET'S BEEN STRONG,
IT'S WEAKENING BUT IT'S NOT
WEAK.
AND THEN PAGE FOUR IS THE YIELD
CURVE USUALLY A YIELD CURVE
GIVES YOU AN INDICATION OF HOW
THE ECONOMY IS DOING AN
INVERTED YIELD CURVE WHICH IS
THE GREEN LINE THAT WAS THE
PEAK INVERSION MEANING SHORT
TERM RATES WERE HIGHER THAN
LONG TERM RATES IS USUALLY A
PREDICTOR OF A RECESSION
HOWEVER, DIDN'T REALLY HAPPEN.
BUT WE HAVE ARE STARTING TO SEE
A NICE UPWARD SLOPING CURVE AND
THE GOOD NEWS FOR THIS BODY IN
THIS PORTFOLIO IS WE ARE ABLE
TO INVEST AND ACTUALLY EARN
SOMETHING ON THE CASH THAT WE
HAVE WITH JUST ABOUT ZERO RISK
.
SO QUESTIONS THOUGHTS ON THAT
PAGE FIVE THIS JUST GIVES AN
UPDATE IN JUST FOCUS ON
TREASURIES AND AGENCIES.
THAT'S PRIMARILY WHAT WE USE IN
THIS PORTFOLIO AND THIS WAS AS
OF YESTERDAY MONDAY MORNING I
BELIEVE SO YOU CAN SEE THAT
RATES GET DROP AS YOU MOVE OUT
THE CURVE A BIT BUT THE SHORT
TERM THREE MONTH, SIX MONTH ARE
BEING SUPPORTED BY THE FED
FUNDS RATE RIGHT NOW.
THE SECOND LINE ON AGENCIES
USUALLY YOU CAN PICK UP YIELD
OR SPREAD BY BUYING AGENCIES
BUT MOST OF IT IS DUE TO CALL
RISK SO THEY CAN CALL THE BOND
IF RATES GO LOWER.
I'M NOT CRAZY ABOUT OWNING
CALLABLE BONDS WITH A WITH A
HIGH LIKELIHOOD OF INTEREST
RATES COMING DOWN.
SO WE'RE PRIMARILY INVESTING IN
TREASURIES IN THE PORTFOLIO
RIGHT NOW BUT THAT CHANGES ALL
ALL THE TIME.
OK, PAGE SIX SO THAT'S OUR VIEW
ON THE ECONOMY OF THE MARKET OR
THE MARKET THAT WE ARE ABLE TO
INVEST IN AND PAGE SIX THIS
SHOWS THE PERFORMANCE OF THE
PORTFOLIO.
SO IF YOU LOOK AT YEAR TO DATE
IN ONE YEAR THAT'S THE SAME
IT'S A JUNE YEAR AND THE
PORTFOLIO RETURN TO FIVE POINT
SIX THREE PERCENT AND THAT'S
FOUR WITH NO RISK OR SORRY VERY
,VERY LITTLE RISK.
NEVER SAY NEVER BUT VERY LITTLE
RISK AND I WAS TALKING WITH
SARAH AND I WAS JUST LOOKING AT
HISTORICAL NUMBERS AND I MEAN
THREE YEARS AGO A LITTLE OVER
THREE YEARS AGO YOUR EARNING
ONE PERCENT, SOMETHING LIKE
THAT.
SO THAT'S BEEN VERY POSITIVE
CERTAINLY PUTTING THE MONEY TO
USE WHEN WE CAN THREE YEAR
RETURN FOUR POINT ONE THREE
PERCENT ON A FIVE YEAR BASIS
WHICH INCLUDES DOES LOWER
YIELDING YEARS TWO POINT THREE
PAGE SEVEN HAS PORTFOLIO JUST
KIND OF SHOWS THE RETURN I
DON'T REALLY LIKE THE GRAPH ON
TOP BUT IF YOU LOOK AT FISCAL
YEAR TO DATE IT SHOWS THAT CASH
RETURNED FOUR POINT SEVEN TWO
PERCENT IN THE FIXED INCOME.
THE INVESTED AMOUNT IN
TREASURIES EARNED FIVE POINT
NINE FOR A BLENDED RATE OF FIVE
POINT SIX THREE PERCENT.
PAGE EIGHT IS DIFFICULT TO LOOK
AT AND WE'LL MAKE YOU DIZZY.
SO I'M GOING TO MOVE ON.
THIS IS JUST THE HOLDINGS
OF THE PORTFOLIO BUT IT IS MUCH
EASIER TO SEE HERE MAYBE
ACCEPTED SMALLER SO THIS
PORTFOLIO SHOWS SHOWS THE
HOLDINGS BROKEN DOWN BY
MATURITY AND IT ALSO SHOWS THE
YIELD TO MATURITY.
SO IF YOU LOOK AT THAT TOP ONE
MCCOMB COUNTY, MICHIGAN
MATERIAL, THE YIELD TO MATURITY
IS FOUR POINT TWO PERCENT.
SO IF WE CONTINUE TO HOLD THAT
UNTIL NOVEMBER 1ST, THAT IS OUR
RETURN.
SO THE YIELD TO MATURITY IS A
YIELD THAT WE SHOULD BE
FOCUSING ON BECAUSE IT TAKES
INTO ACCOUNT NOT ONLY THE
COUPON BUT ALSO THE CASH FLOWS
OF THE THE LAST PAYMENT.
SO OVERALL THE YIELD TO
MATURITY ON THE PORTFOLIO WAS
PROBABLY CAN'T READ THAT BUT IT
IS THREE POINT EIGHTY THREE IN
THE DURATION WHICH IS A MAJOR
RISK IS TWO POINT THREE ONE
YEARS.
AND SO WHAT WE HAVE DONE WITH
THE PORTFOLIO OVER THE LAST
YEAR IS BASICALLY DOUBLED THE
DURATION FROM A LITTLE OVER ONE
YEAR TO TWO POINT THREE YEARS
AND I THINK THAT REALLY MAKES
SENSE IN ANTICIPATION OF THAT
TWO TO THREE YEAR RATES COMING
DOWN.
>> CAN YOU DESCRIBE THAT A
LITTLE BIT MORE JUST SO I
UNDERSTAND THE DURATION
OF MATURITY LIKE SHORT SO YOU
HAVE YOUR CASH FLOWS LIKE IF
YOU LOOK AT LET'S PICK ONE HERE
UNDER MATURITY YEAR TWENTY
SEVEN.
SO WHAT DURATION IS IS IT IT
TAKES INTO ACCOUNT THE CASH
FLOWS AND IT TELLS YOU HOW
QUICKLY YOU'RE GOING TO BE
REPAID ON THAT BOND AND SO IF
WE WERE TO HAVE A ONE HUNDRED
POINT IMMEDIATE ONE HUNDRED
POINT INCREASE IN INTEREST
RATES IN THEORY YOUR PORTFOLIO
WOULD DROP IN VALUE BY ABOUT
TWO PERCENT.
OK, SO IT'S A IT'S A MEASURE
OF RISK.
SO BEDA IS USED ON THE EQUITY
SIDE.
THERE ARE VERY VARIOUS MEASURES
OF DURATION.
AGAIN, THIS IS VERY SHORT.
IT COMPLIES WITH PUBLIC AT
TWENTY.
SO BUT WE DID EXTEND IT A BIT
IN ANTICIPATION OF RATES COMING
DOWN.
DEBT WILL COME DOWN AS QUICKLY
BUT I THINK IT'S A VERY GOOD
MOVE OVER FIVE AND A HALF
PERCENT RETURN ON THE PORTFOLIO
.
DID I ANSWER YOUR QUESTION OR
DID I TODAY MONEY AT MORE
QUESTIONS THOUGHTS, CHALLENGES
AND MY ONLY OTHER THING IS THE
ATTACHMENT ON THE BOARD MEETING
I THINK IS JUST ONE OK I WAS
LIKE THAT WOULD BE GOOD TO HAVE
ALL THE RIGHT.
THANK YOU FOR EVERYTHING.
GREAT.
THANKS SO MUCH.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR YOUR
WORK.
WE APPRECIATE YOUR BUSINESS AND
GOOD FORWARD TO CONTINUING TO
DO A GOOD JOB FOR YOU.
APPRECIATE IT.
THANKS DAVID.
ALL RIGHT.
FINALLY IN YOUR PACKET YOU'LL
FIND THE STAFF REPORTS THAT
WE'RE ATTACHED TO THE THE
PACKET THAT PRINTED NO ACTION
REQUIRED UNLESS THERE'S ANY
QUESTIONS.
LOOKS LIKE THERE ARE SOME GREAT
THROWN AND BY COUNT DATA THERE
.
SO THANKS FOR THAT.
AND WE MOVE ON TO PUBLIC
COMMENT.
LOOKS LIKE WE STILL HAVE NO
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC.
THERE IS YOU'RE WELCOME TO
SPEAK BUT NO.
ALL RIGHT TO ME I HAVE A MOTION
TO ADJOURN OUR BOARD MEETING
SECONDED ALL IN FAVOR FOR DOING
ALL RIGHT.
THANK WE ARE ADJOURNED.
WE'RE NOW MOVING ON TO OUR
ANNUAL MEETING AGENDA AND WE
NEED TO DO ANOTHER ROLL CALL I
GUESS.
MICAWBER, TELL ME ELIZABETH
BERRY, YOUR STEVE BRUMMER, ALEX
DEEK, MILTON DONI, ANGELA
JACKSON, TYLER CANLEY KIM MAIZ
,MIKE MCMAHON STILL HERE
THRACIAN NICKOLS AND MOLLY
ROWIN WE STILL HAVE A ACHARA.
THANK YOU.
SO OUR FIRST ITEM OF NEW
BUSINESS IS THE NOMINATION AND
ELECTION OF DENHA BOARD
OFFICERS FOR FISCAL YEAR TWENTY
SIX AND I'M GOING TO START BY
ASKING TO HAVE A NOMINATION FOR
TREASURER
OR WHAT MAY HAVE A
SECOND ALL IN FAVOR
OF ELIZABETH THEORY FOR BOARD
TREASURER SAY I ALL RIGHT.
WE HAVE A BOARD TREASURER.
MAY I HAVE A NOMINATION FOR
VICE CHAIR?
I NOMINATE WE HAVE A SECOND ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR SAY I OPPOSED.
ALL RIGHT.
WE HAVE A VICE CHAIR MAY HAVE A
NOMINATION FOR CHAIR.
I LIKE TO NOMINATE MICHAEL BARR
.
TELL ME FOR CHAIR A SECOND ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR OF MAKE UP FOR
BOARD CHAIR PLEASE.
I POST WE HAVE A CHAIR NEXT WE
HAVE A RESOLUTION TO APPOINT
THE DENHA EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO
REAPPOINT THE COMMITTEE SECOND
OK ANY DISCUSSION?
>> ALL RIGHT.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY A
POST IT PASSES THAT CONCLUDES
OUR BUSINESS OUR ANNUAL MEETING
AND WE WILL MOVE TO PUBLIC
COMMENT.
WE STILL DON'T HAVE ANY MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC THAT LOOKS LIKE
AND I'LL ASK FOR A MOTION TO
ADJOURN SECONDED ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR.
WE ARE ADJOURNED GRAYTON MY
THANKS